# Use a service

In your `/api.ts` file, you export two variables:

- `api` to make straight calls to your server functions, 
- `store` to make cachable queries client-side,
- `useStore()` to use the store with some specific options.

## api

The `api` proxy object lets you call functions from your server.

- It uses no cache, so doing the same call twice will result in two distinct requests.
- It can be used server-side or client-side.
- Client-side, `store` is preferred for queries while `api` is preferred for mutations.

`api`'s type is the same as the `services` type, excepts:

- properties prefixed with a `$` or a `_` are ignored,
- all functions and values are promisified and potentially return an error (you can never be 100% sure an api call will succeed), which means the signature `sayHi(): string` will be transformed into `sayHi(): Promise<ApiResponse<string>>`.

With `ApiResponse` having the following type:

```ts
export type ApiResponse<Data> = {
  data: Data
  error?: undefined
} | {
  data?: undefined
  error: Error
}
```

:::admonition type="info"
For better error control, Gravity api calls do not throw. It ensures error safety at compile-time.
:::

### Example

Let's use our `math.add` service method:

```ts
const { data, error } = await api.math.add(3, 4)

if (error) {
  console.log(`Error while calling api:`, error)
} else {
  console.log(`Addition result is:`, data)
}
```

## store

The `store` proxy object is internally uses `api` and returns a cachable object with informations on loading state.

Its implementation is different **depending on the front-end framework it is used with**, but all implementations have the following features:

- use an internal cache,
- use shared state so that updating server data will refresh all components that use this data in the page,
- have no effect when called on a non-browser environment.

### Example

`store` works the same as `api`, excepts it does not return an `ApiResponse` but a store object (which depend on the front-end framwork, see the usage section of your front-end framework for complete examples).

Let's use our `math.add` service method:

```ts
// no need to use "await" with a store
const sum = store.math.add(3, 4)
```

### Fetch options

There are different possible fetching strategies when dealing with a cache.

```ts
export type FetchOptions = {
  cache?: boolean | "read" | "write"
  network?: boolean | "if-needed"
  interval?: number
}
```

- `cache` indicates how the request should work with the cache:
  - set to `true` to always use cache (default),
  - set to `false` to never use cache,
  - set to `"read"` to read from the cache but not update it,
  - set to `"write"` to update the cache but not use it.
- `network` indicates how the request should work with the cache:
  - set to `true` to always use network (default),
  - set to `false` to never use network,
  - set to `"if-needed"` to use network only if cache does not exist,
  - set to `"poll"` to call the request at a regular interval.
- `interval` specifies the minimum time in `ms` between two requests.

The default fetch strategy is to use cache **and** network, which means every call will:

1. return the previous cached result if they exist,
2. start a new server request,
3. update the cache value with the new data.

You can customize the default fetching strategy of your `store` requests in the `defineApi` function:

```ts
// /src/api.ts
import { defineApi } from '@digitak/gravity-{{ your-frontend-framework }}';
import type { services } from './services';

export const { api, store, useStore } = defineApi<typeof services>({
  cache: true,
  network: 'if-needed',
  interval: 0,
});
```

These settings will apply to all `store` and `useStore()` calls (except if they are overwritten).

### Specific store options

If you need to query your api with a different fetch options, you can use the `useStore()` composable:

```ts
const sum = useStore({ network: false }).math.add(3, 4)
```

