# Configuration

You can configure your Gravity server at two levels:

- at your [server handler](/docs/project-structure/handler) for server-side configuration,
- at your [api definition](/docs/project-structure/api) for client-side configuration.

:::admonition type="tip"
If you want to configure your **tooling** (generate schema, run dev server, build, ...), see the [configuration file](/docs/project-structure/configuration-file).
:::

## Server handler configuration

```ts
function defineHandler<Services>(options: HandlerOptions<Services>);

type HandlerOptions<Services> = {
	services: Services;
	schema: Record<string, any>;
	apiPath: string = '/api';
	verbose?: boolean;
	allowedOrigins?: string[];
};
```

- `services` is the object that indexes all exported services,
- `schema` is the value of the schema generated from the types of your services,
- `apiPath` is the base path of your Gravity api,
- set `verbose` to `true` if you want full logs on errors,
- `allowedOrgins` is an array of urls that are allowed by the server.

You can also define your [server event](/docs/usage/events) callbacks here.

## Client api configuration

```ts
function defineApi<Services>(options: DefineApiOptions);

type DefineApiOptions = {
	apiPath: string = '/api';
	cache?: boolean | "read" | "write" = true;
	network?: boolean | "if-needed" = true;
	persist?: boolean = false;
	interval?: number; // minimum fetch interval in milliseconds
};
```

- `apiPath` is the server url to fetch when requesting data:
  - in [full-stack application](/docs/getting-started/installation#applications), the server and the client share the same base url, so you can give it a value like `"/api"`,
  - in a [client application](/docs/getting-started/installation#applications), you have to give the full path to your server (in development mode it will most likely look like `"http://localhost:4000/api"`).
- `cache` set the global cache strategy for Gravity stores. If set to true, stores will use an ephemeral in-memory to retrieve already computed values. Do not confuse it with the `persist` option, that is a permanent cache that relies on **IndexedDB**. On most frameworks (React, Vue and Solid), using another value than `true` is not allowed and will print a warning.
- `network` set the global fetch strategy for Gravity stores. If set to `true` (the default), every call will cause a refetch to validate a value even if it already exists in the cache. If set to `if-needed`, network calls are not dispatched if the data is present in the cache or persisted.
- `persist` set the global persisting strategy for Gravity stores. If `true`, Gravity will store in an IndexedDB database every value fetched from a store. These values are retrieved *before* a network call. It's a great option to make a progressive web application or speed up startup if your application needs to fetch a lot of data.

You can also define your [client events](/docs/usage/events) here.
