# Basic example

This is a in-depth explanation of the [main page example](/#simple-workflow).

The following example assumes you have succeeded to [install Gravity](/docs/getting-started/installation) both server-side and client-side. It will show you:

1. how to **create a new service** and define a new function inside,
2. how to **expose your service** to your clients,
3. how to **use your new service** from your client.

<br>

:::steps

!!!step title="Create a new service"|orientation="vertical"

Let's define a new service named `foo`. In Gravity, services are lower-cased. This is because we will never have to instantiate a service so we treat theme like singleton variables rather than constructors.

```ts {2-100}
// services/foo.ts
import { Service } from './Service.js';

export class foo extends Service {
	greetings(to = 'world') {
		return `Hello ${to}!`;
	}
}
```

The `Service` class that we import here should have been automatically created during the installation process.

It is the base class of all our services. We will learn more about it [later](/docs/project-structure/base-service).

In the service `foo`, we defined a new function named `greetings` that take optionally one argument and return a string.

Our brand new service is ready, now we have to expose it to our client.
!!!

!!!step title="Expose your service to your clients"|orientation="vertical"

To expose a service to our clients we have to add it to the [services index object](/docs/project-structure/services-index).

This object will be passed to our [request handler](/docs/project-structure/handler).

```ts {3,7}
// services/index.ts
import { math } from './math.js';
import { foo } from './foo.js';

export const services = {
	math,
	foo
};
```

Now our clients can call every function of the `foo` service. Let's try it.
!!!

!!!step title="Call your service from your client"|orientation="vertical"

There are two ways to call a server function from a client: with the [api](/docs/usage/use-a-service#api) proxy or with the [store](/docs/usage/use-a-service#store) proxy. Both are exported from the [`api.ts`](/docs/project-structure/api) file.

Usage of the store proxy will depend on the front-end framework used.

Let's use the `api` proxy to access to our new `foo.greetings()` server function:

```ts{2-100}
// this is client-side code
import { api } from './api.js';

// let's greet the world
const greetingWorld = await api.foo.greetings();

if (greetingWorld.error) {
	console.log('Could not greet world:', error);
} else {
	console.log(greetingWorld.data);
}

// now let's greet John
const greetingJohn = await api.foo.greetings('John');

if (greetingJohn.error) {
	console.log('Could not greet John:', error);
} else {
	console.log(greetingJohn.data);
}
```

You can play around and notice how the `greetings` function is typed exactly how you declared it. There are two differences between your original `greetings` function and the one you use from the `api` proxy:

- it does not return directly a `string` but an `ApiResponse<string>`,
- it is promisified so you need to `await` the response.

The `ApiResponse` type is a simple wrapper to deal with errors:

```ts
export type ApiResponse<Data> =
	| {
			data: Data;
			error?: undefined;
	  }
	| {
			data?: undefined;
			error: Error;
	  };
```

Gravity calls **do not throw**. This is to ensure your application integrity and to get the help of the compiler to handle errors.

The `greetings` function is also safe. That means that if you try to bypass the type warnings and send the request with a bad parameter, you will receive an error:

```ts {1,2,5,6}
const notAString = 12;
const greetingJohn = await api.foo.greetings(notAString);

if (greetingJohn.error) {
	// should print: "Could not greet John: Bad parameters"
	console.log('Could not greet John:', error?.message);
} else {
	console.log(greetingJohn.data);
}
```

!!!
:::

**That's it!**

You've learned Gravity basics. Now you are ready to go deeper in the documentation.
