# Gravity cli

Gravity comes with its own cli command: `gravity`.

All commands will look for the closest `gravity.toml` file to extract configuration options. These options can be overwritten by the cli parameters.

## gravity create

Setup a new Gravity project in the current working directory.

```coffee
gravity create [--manual] [--destination <path>]
```

- `--manual` add this option to indicate manually which frameworks you want your Gravity installation to work with.
- `--destination <path>` to start installation in another directory than the current working directory.

## gravity dev

Start a **dev server** with **hot reload**.

```coffee
gravity dev
  [--entry <file>]
  [--services <file>]
  [--schema <file>]
  [--use <command>]
```

- `--entry <file>` indicates the main file that starts your server (not compatible with `--use`).
- `--use <command>` when Gravity integrates with another back-end framework (like SvelteKit or Nuxt), this option indicates the framework's dev command (example: `svelte-kit dev`). Not compatible with `--entry`.
- `--services <file>` indicates the path of the source file that exports the `services` variable.
- `--schema <file>` is the path to the generated `schema.json` that describes your services's types.

:::admonition type="info"
This command will regenerate `schema.json` at start and then on every impacting change.
:::

## gravity build

Build the Gravity server.

```coffee
gravity build
  [--entry <file>]
  [--output <file>]
  [--services <file>]
  [--schema <file>]
  [--use <command>]
  [--bundle-dependencies]
  [--no-logs]

  # options that are passed to esbuild
	[--minify <boolean>]
	[--format <'cjs' | 'esm'>]
	[--sourcemap <boolean>]
	[--platform <value>]
	[--target <value>]
	[--jsx <value>]
	[--jsx-factory <value>]
	[--jsx-fragment <value>]
	[--keep-names <value>]
	[--legal-comments <value>]
	[--tree-shaking <value>]
	[--tsconfig <value>]
```

- `--entry <file>` indicates the main file that starts your server (not compatible with `--use`).
- `--output <file>` the location of the output bundled file (not compatible with `--use`).
- `--use <command>` when Gravity integrates with another back-end framework (like SvelteKit or Nuxt), this option indicates the framework's build command (example: `svelte-kit build`). Not compatible with `--entry` and `--output`.
- `--services <file>` indicates the path of the source file that exports the `services` variable.
- `--schema <file>` is the path to the generated `schema.json` that describes your services's types.
- `--bundle-dependencies` indicates to include the third-party scripts (typically from the `node_modules` folder) into the generated build file.
- `--no-logs` indicates to prevent the command to output logs.

:::admonition type="tip"
You can get the full description of EsBuild options in the [official api page](https://esbuild.github.io/api/).
:::

### CommonJS vs ES modules

If Gravity finds a `"type": "module"` field in the package.json, the default output format will be ESM. Otherwise, it will be CJS.

You can still force what format to use with `--format cjs` or `--format esm`.

### Build strategies

Dealing with different packages that can be either CJS or ESM is not easy.

There are two build strategies that work well:

- ESM with unbundled dependencies
- CJS with bundled dependencies

#### ESM with unbundled dependencies

This is the default strategy.

1. Output the build in ESM format
2. Don't bundle dependencies and let the node engine handle the different package types
3. Add `"type": "module"` to your package.json

With this strategy, you can import ESM as well as CJS packages. Packages must be compatible with node. This is the most solid strategy and the one used by the `gravity dev` command.

:::admonition type="tip"
Don't forget to add `"type": "module"` to your package.json file.
:::

#### CJS with bundled dependencies

1. Output the build in CJS format
2. Bundle all dependencies, which will create one huge cjs file
3. Make sure you don't have `"type": "module"` to your package.json

This is a fine alternative even though not as solid as the previous one. Esbuild will convert all imports (even ESM) into CJS format and output one single cjs file that will contain the whole application.

This strategy has the advantage of creating a portable build (no need to bring the whole `node_modules` with the build output), but it will bug if a dependency use a binary module.

Notably, libraries like chokidar, fsevents or prisma are not compatible with this build strategy.

### Custom build

It is possible to use another build tool than Gravity's default. The only constraint is to generate the services' schema before the build, which can be done with the following command:

```bash
gravity generate schema
```

Or it can be done programmatically with the `generateSchema` function:

```ts
import { generateSchema } from '@digitak/gravity/cli/jobs/generateSchema';

generateSchema({
	// ...optional options go there
});
```

If found, the `gravity.toml` configuration file will be used.

## gravity preview

Start the Gravity server after a successful build.

```coffee
gravity preview [--output <file>]
```

- `--output <file>` the location of the output bundled file.

:::admonition type="warning"
If you integrated Gravity with another back-end framework, you should use the framework's preview command instead.
:::

## gravity generate schema

```coffee
gravity generate schema
  [--services <file>]
  [--schema <file>]
  [--watch]
  [--no-logs]
```

- `--services <file>` indicates the path of the source file that exports the `services` variable.
- `--schema <file>` is the path to the generated `schema.json` that describes your services's types.
- `--watch` set this option to wait for impacting changes and regenerate the schema.
- `--no-logs` indicates to prevent the command to output logs.
