**Gravity** is a **modern back-end framework** with **full-stack capacities** written in Typescript.

Its main feature is to facilitate communication in a safe way between server and client by using a [remote procedure call](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) system. Gravity will give you the power to call a function **defined in the server** directly **from the client** - like if it's just a normal Javascript function.

Sounds cool, right?

Gravity:

- proposes a clean and scalable architecture based on **services**,
- can integrate with a many different frameworks and architectures,
- handles **authorization** and data access via a **declarative approach**,
- **shares Typescript types** between server and client,
- automatically reads Typescript types to **validate client parameters** against their type definition,
- can be easily used to create a safe bridge between [Prisma](https://prisma.io) and your front-end.

Gravity is ideal for full-stack development and shines when used along Prisma.

## Why

Gravity is born because communicating between the server and the client was too complicated and dangerous.

The problem is: how to have a **simple** and **safe** client to server communication? And in particular:

- how to share types between server and client?
- how to automatically make sure the server receives the expected data?
- how to make it simple?

Rest architectures are highly hazardous. You can have typos in URL names, there is no way to know exactly if the parameters you send have the right type, and you can't be sure that the data you are receiving has the expected type.

GraphQL is a cleaner protocol that can be 100% safe when mixed with code generators - but then that adds a lot of boilerplate.

Gravity aims to adresses all these issues while trying to provide the best developer experience possible.
