A **service** is a **class** that defines functions that can be called from the client or any external source.

Services should not be instantiated manually unless there is a good reason. Gravity will automatically instantiate the needed services when a new request comes by.

Because each request will create a new service, it is a bad practice to do heavy tasks in the service constructor. Most of the time, no constructor is needed and your service will mostly act as a namespace for your functions.

Your services must extend the `Service` class that extends Gravity's `BaseService` class:

```typescript
export abstract class BaseService<Context = any> {
  public readonly context: Context

  // use this method to call another service from this service
  protected useService<Service extends BaseService<Context>>(
    serviceConstructor: new (context: Context) => Service,
  ): Service
}
```

A **service** is nothing too complicated:

- it contains a `context` property of type `Context`,
- and a method `useService` to call another service.

> There can be one instance of each service maximum by request. If the same service is used multiple times by the same request, the first instance will be reused.

## Service examples

Let's create two services: `user` and `admin`.

```typescript
// /services/user/index.ts
export type User = {
  name: string
  isAdmin?: boolean
}

export const users: Array<User> = []

export class user extends Service {
  me(): User {
    return { name: "Foo" }
  }

  findByName(name: string): User | undefined {
    return users.find(user => user.name == name)
  }
}
```

```typescript
// /services/admin/index.ts
import { user } from "../user"

export class admin {
  amIAdmin(): boolean {
    return this.useService(user).me().isAdmin == true
  }
}
```

Once you created a new service, you have to add it to the `services` object so that the client can request it.

> You might want to create "private" services that are used by other services without being exposed.<br><br>That's a way to create an **utility service**.

### External service getter

If you need to call another service too often, you might want to create a getter to access it more easily.

```typescript
// /services/admin/index.ts
import { user } from "../user"

export class admin {
  protected get user() {
    return this.useService(user)
  }

  amIAdmin(): boolean {
    return this.user.me().isAdmin == true
  }
}
```


If this service is used globally by all your other services, you can add it to your base `Service` class:

```typescript
// /services/Service.ts
export class Service extends BaseService<Context> {
  protected get user() {
    return this.useService(user)
  }
}
```

## Private service properties

There are five ways to prevent a service property to be exposed to your client:

1. by using the `private` keyword
2. by using the `protected` keyword
3. by prefixing the property name with a `#`
4. by prefixing the property name with a `$`
5. by prefixing the property name with a `_`

Using `private`, `protected` or prefixing with `#` will also make your property inaccessible from your other services.
