In your `/api.ts` file, you export two variables:

- `api` to make straight calls to your server functions, 
- `useApi()` which is a composable around `api` that works only client-side.

## api

The `api` proxy object lets you call functions from your server.

- It uses no cache, so doing the same call twice will result in two distinct requests.
- It can be used server-side or client-side.
- Client-side, `useApi()` is preferred for queries while `api` is preferred for mutations.

`api`'s type is the same as the `services` type, excepts:

- properties prefixed with a `$` or a `_` are ignored,
- all functions and values are promisified, which means the signature `sayHi(): string` will be transformed into `sayHi(): Promise<string>`.

### Svelte example

```svelte
<!-- /components/Add.svelte -->
<script lang="ts">
import { api } from "/api"
const response = api.math.add(1, 2)
</script>

{#await response}
  Computing...
{:then result}
  Result is: {result}
{/await}
```

> ⛔️&nbsp; If you are using SvelteKit with server-side rendering, **don't do this**! The api call will happen twice: first on the server and then on the client.<br><br>Two solutions:
> - use the `useApi()` composable (recommended),
> - or add a browser check.

Example of browser check:

```svelte
<!-- /components/Add.svelte -->
<script lang="ts">
import { api } from "/api"
import { browser } from "$app/env"

let result: number | undefined = undefined
if (browser) {
  api.math.add(1, 2).then(response => result = response)
}
</script>

{#if result === undefined}
  Computing...
{:else}
  Result is: {result}
{/if}
```


### Solid example

```tsx
//  /components/Add.tsx
import { api } from "/api"
import { createSignal } from "solid-js";

export function Add() {
  const [result, setResult] = createSignal<undefined | number>(undefined)

  api.math.add(1, 2).then(setResult)

  return (
    <div>
      {result === undefined ? `Computing...` : result}
    </div>
  )
}
```

### React example

Same as Solid, but replace `createSignal` with `useState`.

> ⛔️&nbsp; If you are using Next with server-side rendering, **don't do this**! The api call will happen twice: first on the server and then on the client.<br><br>For this reason, it is recommended to use `useApi()` when querying data.



## useApi()

`useApi()` is a composable that internally uses `api`.

Its implementation is different depending in the front-end framework it is used with, but all implementations have the following features:

- use an internal cache,
- have different fetch options (cache only, network only, stale while revalidate, ...),
- use shared state so that updating server data will refresh all components that use this data in the page,
- have no effect when called from a non-browser environment (return a promise that never resolves).
