In your `/api.ts` file, you export two variables:

- `api` to make straight calls to your server functions, 
- `useApi()` which is a composable around `api` that works only client-side.

## api

The `api` proxy object lets you call functions from your server.

- It uses no cache, so doing the same call twice will result in two distinct requests.
- It can be used server-side or client-side.
- Client-side, `useApi()` is preferred for queries while `api` is preferred for mutations.

`api`'s type is the same as the `services` type, excepts:

- properties prefixed with a `$` or a `_` are ignored,
- all functions and values are promisified, which means the signature `sayHi(): string` will be transformed into `sayHi(): Promise<string>`.


## useApi()

`useApi()` is a composable that internally uses `api`.

Its implementation is different depending in the front-end framework it is used with, but all implementations have the following features:

- use an internal cache,
- have different fetch options (cache only, network only, stale while revalidate, ...),
- use shared state so that updating server data will refresh all components that use this data in the page,
- have no effect when called from a non-browser environment (return a promise that never resolves).

The composable has the following type:

```ts
function useApi(options?: UseApiOptions): UseApiProxy

type UseApiOptions = {
  cache?: boolean | "read" | "write"
  network?: boolean | "if-needed" | "poll"
  interval?: number // mandatory if `network` is `poll`
}
```

- `cache` indicates how the request should work with the cache:
  - set to `true` to always use cache (default),
  - set to `false` to never use cache,
  - set to `"read"` to read from the cache but not update it,
  - set to `"write"` to update the cache but not use it.
- `network` indicates how the request should work with the cache:
  - set to `true` to always use network (default),
  - set to `false` to never use network,
  - set to `"if-needed"` to use network only if cache does not exist,
  - set to `"poll"` to call the request at a regular interval.
- `interval` specifies the minimum time in `ms` between two requests;
  - if `network` is set to `"poll"`, it is a mandatory field and specifies the interval duration in `ms` between two requests.

The return type `UseApiProxy` depends on the front-end framework used.


### Default useApi() options

You can specify the default behaviour of your `useApi()` request in your `/src/api.ts` file:

```ts
// /src/api.ts
import { defineApi } from '@digitak/gravity-svelte/defineApi';
import type { services } from './services';

export const { api, useApi } = defineApi<typeof services>({
  cache: true,
  network: 'if-needed',
  interval: 0,
});
```

These settings will apply to all `useApi()` calls (except if they are overwritten).
